<h1>conj_head: Head Identification in Coordinating Conjunctions in UD </h1>

<h2>Contents</h2>

1. [Documentation](#documentation)
2. [Included Files](#included-files)
3. [Using This Module](#using-this-module)
5. [RunTime Details](#runtime)
6. [Results](#results)
7. [Citations](#citations)

<h3>Documentation</h3>

The problem statement, the different approaches to the problem, and even more discussion can be accessed through the document
[here](docs/conj_head.pdf).

<h3>Included Files</h3>

1. Annotations folder  

    Contains the manually annotated data for the experiment. The annotations were used
    to present the results in documentation. More about the annotations can be read in
    [this](Annotations/README.md) document.
    
2. Extra Data (Not Annotated) folder

    Contains some results that are not annotated but are useful for evaluation of the algorithm.
    Unless needed to extend the algorithm, not needed by an end-user. More details about the files in this category can
    be read in the documentation for Annotations folder [here](Annotations/README.md).

2. makefile  

    File that can be used to run the module on the local system. Check [here](#using-this-module)
    for details.
 
3. README.md  

    The current file

4. requirements.txt  

    File containing the necessary packages needed to run this project.
    Install them by cloning the repository to your system, and then type in terminal:
    
    ```pip install -r requirements.txt```

    You might want to use `pip3` instead of `pip`, depending on your system.

5. scripts folder  

    Contains the main script that runs the module. Needs to be copied into the correct
    udapy folder location (see makefile for details), before it can be used.

6. times_af, times_ar  

    Contains the file containing the time taken to run the block for Afrikaans and Arabic data, 
    respectively. The data is organised into 2 lines per run, for a total of 100 runs. Format:

    ```
    Time when block starts processing
    Time when block stops processing and next block takes over
    ```

<h3>Using This Module</h3>

To start with the module, clone this repository in your system, and then run the commands in the given order:

    make getdata
 Downloads the required dependencies using `requirements.txt` file, UDv2.4 data using the link
 [here](https://lindat.mff.cuni.cz/repository/xmlui/handle/11234/1-2988) and then prepares working 
 copies of the treebanks in the current directory.
 
    make stats
 Report all the instances of mis-directed dependencies of <b>CCONJ</b> UPOS and <b>cc</b> deprel
in `*.stats` file, across all treebanks in UDv2.4. Requires UDv2.4 data in `HOME` folder, but downloads and unzips the package 
if not found.
 
    make correction
Runs the script by first copying it into correct location. Generates the corrected Corrects the instances detected in `*.direction` file, creates a `*2.conllu` file with all the corrections, and 
 `*2.direction` file with the instances not handled by the algorithm.
 
    make clean
  Removes all `.conllu` and the files generated by this makefile.

<h3>RunTime</h3>

RunTime based on 100 runs, as run on Ubuntu 18.04 (64-bit) on a 4-core Intel i5-6300 HQ processor.

| Language | RunTime (in ms) |
|:---------:|:-------|
| af |  81.33 ± 7.094 |
| ar | 317.05 ± 23.996 |

<h3>Results</h3>

For a through analysis of the results of the experiment, it is advised to read the 
documentation, for it contains thorough investigation of the results, with examples. 

<h3>Citations</h3>

1. Chiara Alzetta, Felice Dell’Orletta, Simonetta Montemagni, and Giulia Venturi. Dangerous relations in dependency 
treebanks. In <i>Proceedings of the 16th International Workshop on Treebanks and Linguistic Theories</i>, pages 201–210, 2017.

2. Martin Popel, Zdeněk Žabokrtský, and Martin Vojtek. Udapi: Universal API for universal dependencies.
In <i>Proceedings of the NoDaLiDa 2017 Workshop onUniversal Dependencies (UDW 2017)</i>, pages 96–101, 2017.

3. Leon Stassen. And-languages and with-languages. <i>Linguistic Typology</i>, 4:1–54,01 2000. doi: 10.1515/lity.2000.4.1.1
